# 02-20-11-01-B0 - Store Space Price Lowering Amendment v.2
By kallewhannesw
Written 29/10-20

## 1) Opening declaration
- Starting your own business from scratch can be hard, and getting players to live and work in a newly built area can also be hard. Both of these problems can be solved by allowing a “price lowering” to be voted through in parliament. Just like an amendment, it can be proposed by any MP by messaging the speaker and saing what area one wishes for the price lowering to encompass. Just like with an amendment parliament votes and then the senate. If it is passed, it lowers the price to 3£ per block floor for one week, starting the moment it is passed. Why 3£? A rough average of store prices outside of spawn on Harlon is 5£ per block so lowering that by 40% is 3£.  This helps small businesses, but doesn’t really make a difference for big companies with large capital. To make sure it doesn’t benefit monopolies, nothing in this amendment would apply to companies with over five locations. Also, since it was not understood last time, a price lowering will only happen if it is voted for, so passing this amendment alone does nothing ( :
## 2) Amendment information
- This Amendment wishes to allow parliament to vote through “price lowerings” as described above.
## 3) Amendment requirements 
- This amendment would require staff to change signs in the affected area after a price lowering has been voted through, and then again a week later.
## 4) Amendment cost
- N/A
## 5) Amendment implementation and timeline
- The amendment shall be implemented as soon as passed.
## 6) Other information
- N/A

2-20-11-01-A
2-20-11-01-B1
2-20-11-01-B2

BA001
BA002

BB001
BB002

D001
D002